- [Instructor] Let us take a look
at the ContextService API Demo now.
We want to make this very simple
because ContextService is a very useful advanced scenarios.
Let's take a look at what we want to do.
The first step is add a REST class in the project,
so let's go back to the IDE and add a REST class here,
let's say, ContextServiceAPIResource.
@Path an addition here.
Let's give it a value.
Okay, next is inject ContextService object
by the resource annotation, so like the way
we have injected all the other managed resources,
let's inject this one, too.
Let's go to the server and let's go to context services
and pick up the default context service object available.
So, that's the JNDI name.
Let's come back to our class, and we'll say @Resource.
Let's do a lookup of this object
and assign it to a reference or,
this is a dependency injection that we're doing,
so we're going to say ContextService, take a reference.
Okay.
Once this is done, we create a simple runnable
implementation, which will fetch
the security context information.
Okay, so let's go to the IDE and create a runnable task.
Let's say ContextServiceRunnable
and let this implement runnable,
so we have to, of course, implement the run method.
We don't want this default implementation.
Let's get rid of it.
Okay, so what are we going to do here?
We first will do a sys out, saying Thread,
and let's get the name of the thread,
so Thread.currentThread.getName
and the next thing that we're going to do here
is we're going to fetch the security context information.
So generally, when you run it as a full application,
you do configure security authentication for it
because you do not want anybody
to come and access the service,
but for this demonstration purpose,
we have no security configured under
this service that we have built.
So, whenever we try to put in the security context
information, it will pull in the security context
information of the underlying GlassFish Server's users.
Okay, so whatever the default configuration
has been defined for security under the GlassFish Server,
that's what we will pull out.
So how do we pull out?
We make use of a couple of APIs
from java.security packet and javax.security.auth packet.
And how do we do that?
We take the subject API, that's coming
from the javax.security.auth packet,
and let's take a reference to it,
and then we're going to say Subject.getSubject,
and you're going to get the access control context
information, so I'm going to say AccessController,
we'll look at that in a minute,
let me just quickly complete the sentence, getContext.
So what is this, subject is an API
which is going to help you store related information,
like for example, if I have a user, entity, a person,
then the information of that person
is contained in this subject API.
So that could be the identity information.
It could also be security related attributes
like passwords, cryptographic keys, et cetera.
So that is the subject information
and AccessController.getContext
is basically going to give me the snapshot
of the current call in context.
So from that current called context,
I'm trying to retrieve the subject.
AccessController, just for your information,
is basically to make a decision
about a particular accessed resource,
so if there's a resource that I have with me,
should I be allowing access to it,
or should I be denying it?
That is what it will tell me.
So from the snapshot of the current context,
I'm picking up the subject's information,
so the person's or the user's information.
That's all I'm doing.
And then I'm putting a sys out, simple siz-ode,
which says security information from a normal thread.
This is a normal thread instance, right?
I mean, it's a simple implementation of the runnable.
So, we'll just append that subject information to it.
Once this is done, what is the next step?
We're going to use the ContextService API now
to create a contextual proxy
for the runnable implementation.
Okay, so let's go to the IDE and come here
and quickly write a method, let's annotate it
with the GET annotation, and let's say
public String accessSecurityInfo,
let that be the method, and inside that,
what are we going to do, we're going to get the
instance of the context service runnable first.
We've already created the runnable implementation,
so we're going to go ahead and create an instance of that.
That's going to be very simple, ContextServiceRunnable,
if you don't get it, dive in more, yeah,
and let's take this and say new on it.
Just go to instant she-day-rot, that's all.
So, on the next line, I'm going to create
an instance of the thread class.
Like that, and through this I'm going
to pass the runnable instance.
Now, if on the next line, I say thread.start,
let's understand what I'm trying to do.
I'm trying to clear the thread in the way I have always done
on the standard edition platform.
So if I'm trying to create my own resource,
we know that the container would not be aware,
and then this thread would never get the thread context,
which means, if I try to run this thread now,
by writing these couple lines, 28 and 29,
then it is not guaranteed that
the security context information I am trying to pull in this
runnable will be available to me when I run this thread.
Okay, that's exactly what the problem is
that we discussed at the unit start
of the competency API discussion,
that if you cleared these threads by yourself,
then there is no guarantee the thread's entire
contextual information would be available inside the thread.
So, whatever thread code that you're running,
let's say in this, I'm trying to access
the security information, I'm not sure
whether I'll get it, okay?
So instead of that, the context service API now can be used
to ensure that that context information will be captured
for this thread to run.
How?
So let's get rid of these lines
and say runnable, and this time
I'm going to create a proxy, I label it that way
so that it becomes easy to understand.
So now I'm creating a proxy and how do I do that?
Let's take that contextService and
say dot createContextualProxy.
So, to this, I'm going to pass the runnable instance,
which is my runnable instance on line 27,
and the type, of course the type is, Runnable.class.
Okay, now once this is done, now if I clear the thread
like that, the way I cleared in the SE platform,
and pass the proxy instead of passing the runnable,
and if I say thread.start, then it
is going to make a difference.
Now what happens is that, since the proxy was created,
now this proxy will definitely retain
that security context information
which is a part of the core of my runnable.
So now, my proxy will have access to it.
So now, when I run this proxy by means of a thread,
let this be on another instance of the server
or maybe when the server restarts,
this proxy will still retain that security information.
It will be able to access that security information, and
that is exactly the magic that context service API spins.
It allows you to capture that container context
and allows you to run it at a later point in time.
Okay, so now what we want to do
is we're just going to save this, and from here,
we just say return context capturing information.
Okay, so now, let's go ahead and run this.
Let's take the bot, go to Postman, and access
the context service API bot, and let's see what happens.
Yeah, so you get the context capturing information here,
cool, but let's also see the console.
Yeah, that's what it is, so now,
had you just started it as a normal thread,
then there was no guarantee that I'll get
this information captured, but now
that I am trying to create a proxy of my runnable,
it is ensured that now the proxy will be able
to access that security context information.
So this how the context service API works.
I iterate, this is only for advanced scenarios,
that's why we try to keep this demo as simple as possible.